# Production Plan Optimization

### Introduction
This project aims at providing a solution for planning optimization.
The example shown here is a manufacturing company that need to optimize its daily production plan in order to reduce the costs.

More and more constraints are considered from Model1 to Model8, the most sophisticated. 
Here is a brief introduction of each of these models:
- Model 1: 
  Daily requirement in number of hours to allocate between 3 different production lines, on the same day. 
  Capacity is the same for each production line but not hourly cost. One production line can not be opened for less than 7 hours or more than 12 hours.
- Model 2:
  The concept of overtime cost is added. Hours worked from 8 to 12 hours are paid higher.
- Model 3:
  The concept of extra fee during weekends is added.  
- Model 4:
  In order to better optimize our planning, we now allow to plan the production in advance to reduce extra costs due to OT or weekends.
  Concept of storage cost is introduced.
- Model 5:
  If it is not possible to produce on time because of all the constraints, we now allow late scheduling.
  A concept of late scheduling cost is introduced and needs to be minimized. It represents the fees generated by a late production and customer insatisfaction.
  
### Requirements

- Python 3.8
- Poetry
- Gurobi Python installed with a valid license


### How to setup

```shell script
poetry install
```

### How to run


To run Model1:
```shell script
python Model1/Model1.py
```

To run Model2:
```shell script
python Model2/Model2.py
```
